Hi, everybody, thanks for joining.
We're really excited to
introduce you today and
walk you through a new service called
AWS natural language processing.
My name is Nino Bice,
a little bit about myself.
I'm a product manager on the team,
I work with the team of engineers.
And together, we've gone out,
thought extensively around,
what are the problems in the space?
How could we bring a solution to
you that solves those problems?
And we work day in and
day out with our customers to
continue in evolution of a roadmap.
But that's a little bit on myself,
I've been at the AWS about a year now.
The majority of my background is in
data systems and cloud in general, and
semantic data experiences.
So it's why I'll be talking to
you about NLP specifically today.
The course will take you through
service introduction, of course,
we'll talk about some overview and
use cases.
So you can understand not only what it is,
but what it can do for you and
how you can use it.
And I'll take you through a brief
demonstration of our console.
Which is really helpful in
understanding the service, and
even allows you to play with it
with your own information as well.
So before we dive in to introducing
the features of the service,
let's set the stage for.
Why are we here, and why are we
talking about this service in general?
It's really important to understand
that the unstructured text, so
text that is not in a schema and
is not in a relational table.
It's frankly exploding,
It's growing exponentially.
So if you think about the '70s,
'80s, '90s,
a lot of us were inputting information
into computer systems in a structured way.
Forms, we were writing them through
data input, a lot of things like Excel.
This information was
coming in structured and
it was therefore being
stored in a structured way.
And that means that there's a set
of technology that we've built
to allow you to store and
query that at that structured data.
So now we're entering an era where
a lot of information being generated is
unstructured.
So you can think of
things like social media,
you can think of things like Twitter.
You can think of the the way
that your brand company or
service is interacting
with your customers.
So those customers are feeling
like with with Chatbots,
they're interacting with
you in conversational ways.
They're interacting with your brand or
service in comments and reviews.
This is all data that's important and
it's growing exponentially,
because it's easier to
communicate that way.
And more people will continue to do that
value is locked inside of this text.
So to a machine it looks like
a string of unstructured text.
To a brand manager, it looks like what
somebody is saying about their price.
Or the experience they had
staying at a specific hotel.
Or the fact that when
they stayed somewhere,
they really enjoyed the coffee
shop down the street.
These are all these are all
elements of information that
are important to any business,
or really anyone.
So the reason why we're able to bring
something of high value like this today.
Is because of that machine learning and
artificial intelligence.
Text analytics and NLP specifically
has been around for a while.
But it's really been rules-based,
allowing you allowing you
to parse unstructured data.
So you can do things like
keyword counting and sorting.
Now with deep learning models,
were able to train this technology to
bring human-like context and awareness.
To that text extraction,
to that NLP experience.
And the last thing we want to mention,
that's really important.
Is that we've thought deeply around how
to bring this technology to market, so
that it's for everyone.
It doesn't require an advanced skill-set,
or maybe a three-month exercise.
Where you learn about models deeply,
you learn about training models.
This service specifically is brought so
that everyone that works with data today.
With the skills you have today,
can now look at approaching
natural language processing.
That's AI-based, using the skills that
you have, so let's introduce the service.
The service itself offers
five main capabilities and
we'll talk about it this way.
And it's important to remember that all
of these capabilities are based on deep
learning.
The first one is sentiment.
Sentiment allows you to understand whether
what the user is saying is positive or
negative.
Or even neutral,
sometimes that's important as well.
You want to know if there's not sentiment,
that might be a signal.
The next one is entities.
This feature goes through the unstructured
text and extracts entities and
actually categorizes them for you.
So things like people, or things like
organizations will be given a category.
And we'll walk through more
detail what that means.
The third capability
is language detection.
So for a company that has
a multilingual application,
with a multilingual customer base.
You can actually determine
what language the text is in.
So you know if you have to
translate the text itself, or
take some other kind of
business action on the text.
The fourth capability is key phrase,
think of this as noun phrases.
So where entities are extracted,
is maybe proper nouns.
The key phrase will catch everything
else from the unstructured text, so
you actually can go
deeper into the meaning.
What were they saying about the person?
What were they saying about
the organization for example?
And then the fifth capability
is topic modeling.
Topic modeling works over
a large corpus of documents.
And helps you do things like organize them
into the topics contained within those
documents.
So it's really nice for organization and
information management.
So let's talk a little bit deeper around
the APIs that help you text analysis.
In the example on the left,
you can see that we have
a snippet of unstructured text.
This may have come in through a comment,
or it was maybe mentioned somewhere.
And you can see what the four
APIs are doing here.
The first one is extracting
the named entity, so
amazon.com is extracted
as an organization.
Seattle, of course,
is extracted as a location.
You can see that we extract noun-based
phrases, or things like everyone,
great customer experience.
We know that the sentiment on
the last sentence is positive.
because of course everybody loves
the great customer experience,
it's generally a positive thing.
And of course we've determined this
snippet of text is English, of course,
because it's English.
The fifth capability that we've
talked about is topic modeling.
So topic modeling, what we've done is,
we've actually brought topic
modeling as a service.
So for those that aren't familiar,
topic modeling is doable today.
It's based on an algorithm called
Latent Dirichlet Allocation, LDA, and
it's been kind of hard to go set up.
You have to go find an environment,
there's a lot of parameters to tune.
You have to obviously deploy and operate
that environment, to run that algorithm.
Our team has done a lot of heavy lifting
to make that algorithm available to you as
a simple API.
So we can think about topic
modeling as a service.
So you can just walk up,
bring your documents and start using it.
This service works by
extracting up to 100 topics.
A topic is a keyword bucket, so
you can see what's in the actual
corpus of documents themselves.
And then the service also returns
to you an automatic view which maps
documents to the topics.
So to give you a really basic use case,
you can take a thousand blog posts.
Understand what's in the blog post,
from a top 100 topic perspective.
And then actually map all the blog
posts into those topic buckets.
So if you wanted to give your users
a really easy way to to explore or
browse your blog posts.
Based on the topics they're interested in.
You could do this with a simple call to
this job, and the job service itself.
The next thing we'll talk about
is what gets us really excited,
is why the service is valuable?
So like I said,
NLP has been around for a while.
There's a lot of folks
doing NLP that's AI-based.
What we've built here today is
a service that's truly accurate.
We have an engineering team, and
a data science team behind this service.
Continually working nonstop
to make the service accurate.
On day one you'll notice that this
service is accurate out of the box, and
it's in its competitive.
And it's useful for
the accuracy that you need for
your use cases that you're dependent on.
It's continuously trained, so as we've
said before, we have folks behind there.
Collecting data, annotating,
training the model, looking for
accuracy problems, fixing them.
We're doing this continuously non-stop.
So the more you use this service,
the more that you'll be able
to have the service become accurate for
you, based on your own data.
And then based on the fact that the team
is training it on your behalf, so
the service gets better over time.
And the service is easy to use, so as
opposed to understanding what a model is.
Or how to think about training a model,
or invoking a model.
You can simply walk up, and
it's included in the AWS SDK.
And you can simply invoke the service,
it's a REST API.
And you could build the service in
conjunction with an AWS analytic
service quite easily.
So now let's dive into a demo show,
you a little bit about what
the service actually does.
And how it works and
we'll show you the console itself.
So let's take a moment to look at the
service, and look at some real examples.
So if you log in to the AWS console,
you'll notice that the database NLP
service comes with a really
nice API explorer.
Where you can enter your own text, or
use example text that we provided for you.
In this particular case, this is the text
that comes with the console itself.
And you can see over here,
the entities that we've extracted.
So you can see amazon.com is
an organization, you can see Seattle,
Washington is a location.
You can even see other organizations
like Starbucks and Boeing.
The next thing that you'll see is
that we've extracted key phrases.
So these are noun-based phrases that
we're extracting from this text, so
some of them are the entities
we've extracted.
But there are also other things, more like
common nouns, like customers, books, and
blenders.
As I mentioned earlier, combining named
entities with their key phrase output.
Really helps you understand
what's in the text, and
what's being referred to in the text.
The next API that we've
mentioned is language detection.
So for this text, you can obviously
see that we're very confident
that the input text is English,
and we've marked it as English.
The fourth API is the sentiment API, so
it sees that this statement that we've
entered here, is relatively neutral.
But if I erase this and I said something
like, I love my Amazon deliveries.
And then I analyze that text,
you can now see that we're very
confident this is a positive statement.
This is a great example of how you can
use that to understand what customers
are saying.
And of course if I went back up here,
I'd see that Amazon
the organization was mentioned.
So you can quite literally understand that
customers mentioning your organization.
They're mentioning it in
a positive sentiment way,
which allows you to really take action,
dive in, learn more.
The fifth API that we've talked about,
is topic modeling.
So as I've mentioned, we've taken
a fairly complex algorithm like LDA.
And made it available as
a pretty easy-to-use service.
In this case what you can see here,
is that all we require as input,
to run the topic modeling job for you.
Is an S3 bucket that contains a corpus
of your documents and input format.
Which literally just says,
tell us if you're delimiting by line.
Or if each document is its own file.
You can specify the number of topics.
So you might want to take 1,000 documents,
and put them into ten topics.
Or you might want to put them
into the top 100 topics.
The next thing is to provide
a security permission to
access the bucket on your behalf.
Give it a name, so this is just simply so
you could track the job.
And then a location of
where to put the output.
And as I've mentioned before
you'll get to CSV files as output.
One file will show you
what are the topics.
So if you've said show me 100 topics,
we'll show you those 100 topics, and
the keywords associated with them.
And the next output is going to be what
documents are mapping to those topics?
And you can go act on that output,
however you'd like.
So that completes the demo,
this is the console.
We urge you to go in, plug in your
own data, try out the service,
see if it works for you.
So now we're done with the demo,
let's talk about some common patterns.
What are we hearing from our customers,
around where do they want to get
started with their NLP solutions?
And we've really ultimately seen it
that the patterns boil down to these
three areas.
It's really Voice of Customer Analytics.
What are your customers,
what is anyone really generally saying
about your brand product or service?
These are really important in
understanding if the new product you've
just launched.
How are people perceiving it?
Do they like the price?
Do they do they think
that the color is off?
These are really important
things that you want to know,
that you can capture from
the Voice of Customer.
This can be from social media,
this can be from comments that
they're leaving on a site somewhere.
This can this can be from emails that
they're sending to your company directly.
It could even be support conversations
that your agents are noting within
support call notes.
The next general pattern that
we see is Semantic Search.
So for example,
if you're an elastic search customer.
And you're currently indexing a corpus of
documents to make them available to users.
You can actually use the NLP service
to extract things like topics,
key phrases and entities.
And also index on those as well.
So your customers can get a better
natural search experience.
You could suggest other documents
from the search experience based on
topic contained within the search result.
It just makes search better, understanding
what's in the documents themselves outside
of just a keyword context.
The third pattern is
Knowledge Management Discovery.
So we hear a lot of customers say,
I want to take a big corpus and
organize them.
I want to understand
what's in these documents.
I've got a variety of use
cases from making this
document corpus easier to navigate.
All the way to, we're really looking for
what's contained in these documents.
To make sure that we're meeting certain
standards around what information can be
stored in documents.
So we see a lot of customers using NLP
in these these three general patterns.
Let's now take a look at an example
of how you would use this NLP
service in context of
an AWS analytics solution.
In this case, we're going to talk
about a social analytics application.
So on the very left of
the diagram we'll have tweets.
Let's pretend that we have a bunch of
customers tweeting about our brand service
or product.
We've set up a Kinesis Firehose which is
calling the the the Twitter search API.
And it's pulling in tweets
that we've set to filter out,
that we think is pertinent to us.
We're then running those tweets through
the NLP service to extract things
like the entities in the tweets.
Or the sentiment of the tweets, or
even the key phrases in the tweets.
We might even be determining what is
the language that the tweets are in.
So we really understand more about where
our customer base is in the world and
what they're saying.
So we'll run all those tweets
through the NLP service and
we'll store them into a store.
We could use a relational service in
this case, or we could use Amazon S3.
We've written all the output from
the NLP service into S3, and
now we can just take a query
analytics tool like Athena.
And start to query and
analyze the NLP output.
So for example, once we query that data,
we can then build views
inside of Amazon QuickSight.
That shows us things like,
who is mentioning other organizations
when they're tweeting about my brand?
Who is mentioning my brand or my service
or my product in a negative context,
and why?
What are the what are the keywords that
they're using are the key phrases they're
using when they talk about my brand?
This could allow us to do
a variety of things, like, hey,
in this part of the world.
Customers are interpreting the product
we've just launched as maybe too
expensive.
So bringing the NLP service together
with AWS analytics capabilities.
Allows you to really do
text analytics at scale for
a wide variety of scenarios,
in this case social analytics.
So thanks for attending the course
on it the new AWS NLP service.
We're so excited to see what
you can do with the service and
the solutions that you can build.
It's really easy to get started,
we've offered a free tier.
So there's no cost to you
to use your own data,
we've even provided some
sample data in the console.
So once again, I'm Nino Bice,
on behalf of the team.
Thanks for considering the AWS NLP,
thanks for watching.
[MUSIC]